The clock on a microwave oven is regulated by the Department of Energy.,The Department of Energy (DOE) is ,proposing, to rescind a rule implemented by the Trump Administration that would have imposed additional procedural obligations on the agency before adopting new energy standards. The move likely signals a flurry of new energy efficiency activity in the months ahead, and it forms part of a larger effort by the Biden Administration to roll back good-governance reforms implemented during the Trump years.,The DOE issues dozens of energy standards for appliances and other consumer and business equipment. These regulations affect everything from ceiling fans to that little clock on your microwave oven. The DOE also regulates “test procedures,” which determine how to measure a product’s energy usage. It turns out that measuring energy use can be even trickier than setting an energy standard, given the wide variety of ways people use products, as well as differences in product design.,In 1996, the Clinton DOE finalized a “process rule” that outlined a set of predictable steps that the DOE would take before issuing a final energy standard. These sensible steps included things like early engagement with the public, analysis of impacts, and consulting with experts.* The ,process rule, was not binding, however, so not all the recommended stages were guaranteed to happen. Despite that limitation, the rule did give businesses some certainty as to what to expect when the DOE sets out to regulate them. ,In 2020—after a ,years-long, period of stakeholder engagement—the Trump Administration ,formally amended, the process rule. First, it made the process rule binding on the DOE. This meant that, unlike with the 1996 regulation, a new energy efficiency rule could end up in trouble legally if DOE failed to follow the established process. This would hopefully spur DOE to take the procedures more seriously.,Next, the 2020 rule required the DOE to consider a wider variety of options before settling on an energy standard. This was intended to bolster the benefits of these policies and reduce costs. The DOE’s current approach is to follow a “walk-down” process, whereby the agency first finds the maximum achievable energy efficiency standard given current technology. If that standard has costs in excess of benefits, then the DOE “walks down” the standard until it finds one that is “economically justified,” which in practice tends to mean has benefits that exceed costs.,The problem with this approach is that from an economic standpoint, it makes much more sense to look for the option with the ,most, benefits in excess of costs, thereby achieving the most bang for consumer and business bucks. Instead, DOE interprets its legal obligations as meaning it should identify the most stringent option with ,any, benefits over costs—no matter how small the difference might be.,The 2020 process rule would also require the DOE to engage early with stakeholders, through requests for information or advance notices that a new standard is being considered. Too often, once a regulation is formally proposed by an agency, the regulating department has already made up its mind about what it wants to do. The commenting process creates an illusion that the public can make a meaningful difference, but it frequently comes too late to matter. ,Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm and West Virginia Sen. Joe Manchin on a recent visit to the ,... [+], state.,The DOE’s decision to roll back the new process rule—thereby reinstating the earlier nonbinding version—is a disappointment. It follows a similar ,proposed action, in March that would rescind a ,Trump-era regulation, that sets procedures for DOE guidance documents. “Guidance” is a catch-all term for the various notices that regulatory agencies issue that aren’t formally regulations, but that often have effects like regulations. For example, updating a “Frequently Asked Questions” section on an agency website might result in thousands of firms adjusting their business practices. Beyond attorneys, few people look up the actual text of a regulation in the code, so a website can be more influential than the official law. ,FAQ websites and similar agency documentation don’t have to go through the same standard of review as a regulation, and therefore can skirt checks and balances in the rulemaking process. These checks include things like the commenting process, analysis requirements, or review by the Office of Management and Budget. If kept in place, the guidance regulation would have brought more of this informal-yet-influential rulemaking activity under traditional rulemaking procedures. ,To its credit, the Biden DOE has—at least thus far—maintained a ,website, that houses DOE guidance documents. Some ,agencies, have been making their guidance less visible in recent months, in a major blow to transparency. ,The Small Business Administration, a government agency tasked with advocating on behalf of small businesses, is ,pushing, the Biden DOE to reconsider its blunt decision to repeal the Trump process reforms, but don’t expect the agency to change course much. The Biden Administration’s climate agenda is a top priority. That means seemingly boring good-governance reforms related to guidance and rulemaking procedures will likely be swept away for the sake of political expediency. It’s arguably good politics, but a bad deal for consumers and businesses. ,- -,The author currently serves on the Appliance Standards and Rulemaking Federal Advisory Committee, which gives advice to the Department of Energy about its energy standards.