PARIS, FRANCE - JUNE 09: Coco Gauff of The United States returns a forehand during her Ladies ,... [+], Singles Quarter-Final match against Barbora Krejcikova of Czech Republic on Day Eleven of the 2021 French Open at Roland Garros on June 09, 2021 in Paris, France. (Photo by Adam Pretty/Getty Images),Coco Gauff had her chances.,The 17-year-old American had five set points in the first set Barbara Krejcikova in the quarterfinals of the French Open on Wednesday, but could not convert any of them. Krejcikova went on to win the set and the match, 7-6(6), 6-3 to advance to the semifinals. She will face No. 17 Maria Sakkari of Greece who knocked off defending champion and No. 8 Iga Swiatek, 6-4, 6-4.,The other semifinal features No. 31 Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova of Russia against unseeded Tamara Zidanšek of Slovenia.,Gauff, the youngest American to reach a Grand Slam quarterfinal since Venus Williams at the U.S. Open in 1997, was the last American woman or man in the singles draws.,Gauff was the youngest Grand Slam quarterfinalist since Nicole Vaidisova reached the last eight in Paris in 2006, and the youngest American quarterfinalist at Roland Garros since Jennifer Capriati in 2003.,Gauff broke for a 5-3 lead in the first set when Krejcikova smacked a forehand wide off a deep forehand from Gauff.,Serving for the first set, Gauff hit a backhand into the net on break point.,Gauff had five set points in the first set but couldn’t convert, and Krejcikova finally won it with a forehand winner up the line at 7-6 in the breaker.,Krejcikova broke Gauff early in the second set and raced out to a 3-0 lead.,Serving at 5-1, 40-0, Krejcikova had three match points but couldn’t convert. Gauff fought all the way back to break to keep the match alive.,With Gauff serving at 2-5, she fought off two more match points to get to within 3-5. Finally, the Czech closed it out at love on her serve.,Gauff committed 41 unforced errors in the match against 25 winners while double-faulting four times and serving four aces. Krejcikova hit 28 unforced errors against 27 winners while hitting eight double faults against five aces.,Gauff first broke onto the scene in 2019 when, at 15, she reached the fourth round at Wimbledon, beating Venus Williams in the first round, and then the third round at the ,U.S. Open that year before losing to Naomi Osaka.,She will now look ahead to Wimbledon beginning June 28 and then the U.S. Open later this summer.