An FC-31 on the Type 003 mock-up in Wuhan.,The Chinese navy is building a new aircraft carrier. And there are strong indications that it plans to load up the huge flattop with stealth fighters.,If that’s the case, the People’s Liberation Army Navy will be only the second navy in the world, after America’s, to embark a low-observable warplane on a catapult-equipped carrier.,After a 14-year saga involving a bargain-bin purchase from Ukraine followed by painstaking renovations, in 2012 China commissioned its first aircraft carrier, the second-hand CNS ,Liaoning. ,Seven years later, the PLAN commissioned its first locally built flattop CNS ,Shandong,, a slightly-modified copy of ,Liaoning,. ,The 1,033-foot carriers each embark a couple dozen J-15 fighters, which are Chinese clones of the decidedly non-stealthy Russian Su-33. Both flattops lack catapults, however—they launch their planes via a bow ramp. That limits how much fuel and weaponry a J-15 can carry.,The PLAN is about to remedy that problem, it seems.,The new Type 003 carrier, which has been under construction at a shipyard in Shanghai since 2016, features two catapults on its bow. Launching planes via catapult instead of a ramp allows them to carry full loads of weapons and fuel.,Beijing appears to be moving swiftly to exploit the Type 003’s greater potential. The PLAN is developing a twin-engine radar early warning plane that’s similar to the American E-2. The KJ-600 radar plane clearly is too heavy for ,Liaoning ,and ,Shandong ,but should work just fine from the Type 003. ,The latest hint that the PLAN might also embark stealth fighters on the Type 003 comes in the form of ,a grainy photo, that someone snapped at a Chinese navy test facility in Wuhan.,It’s there in Wuhan that the PLAN builds mock-ups of its new warship designs in order to experiment with sensor layouts. The Wuhan site includes a concrete version of a Type 055 cruiser as well as a copy of part of the Type 003’s flight deck.,The new photo of the concrete Type 003 reveals a recent addition to the unflyable planes arrayed on the mock deck. In addition to a pair of mock J-15s and a KJ-600, there’s an FC-31. ,The Shenyang Aircraft Corporation has been developing the twin-engine FC-31 as a smaller, lighter and potentially cheaper complement to the Chengdu J-20, the Chinese air force’s first—and so far only—stealth fighter. ,There have been rumors that the PLAN has been eying the FC-31 as a possible carrier fighter. The type’s appearance in Wuhan is the strongest signal so far that those rumors are true.,The Type 003 could be commissioned as early as 2025, at which point the PLAN will have three carriers. ,Liaoning ,and ,Shandong ,probably still will be hauling around their tired J-15s, but the Type 003 could sail with a mix of J-15s, FC-31s and KJ-600s in addition to the usual helicopters.,If that kind of wing seems familiar, it’s because it’s close to matching the U.S. Navy’s own carrier air wings. The American wings soon also will include two kinds of fighters—one stealthy, one not—plus radar planes and ‘copters.,Which is not to say the Chinese wing will possess all the capabilities of its American counterpart. The U.S. Navy operates purpose-built radar-jamming jets, for one. It’s also fielding drone tankers for autonomous mid-air refueling. The Chinese navy has not yet begun developing similar aircraft.