Foreign entrepreneurs with their new ideas are critical to the U.S. economy. What is the best way to ,... [+], attract them?,The U.S. International Entrepreneur Program,In the June/July 2021 issue of ,Forbes, magazine, staff writer Amy Feldman pointed out that, “Foreign-born entrepreneurs are key to the success of this nation. ,Some 3.2 million of them, operate businesses in the United States, representing nearly 22% of all business owners versus just 14% of the broader population. They hold ,disproportionate numbers of patents, for new technologies, employ 8 million people and are represented as founders at ,more than half ,of all venture-backed unicorns, ,including Databricks,., The author added, “An analysis of the ,Forbes ,Billionaires list found 77 foreign-born entrepreneurs who built U.S. companies with combined revenue of over $528 billion and total employment of more than 775,000. Among the corporate heavyweights with immigrant founders: Google 
 , 
  ,GOOG, 
 ,, Tesla 
 , 
  ,TSLA, 
 , and Yahoo.”,Recognizing the importance of encouraging such foreign entrepreneurs to come to the United States, the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) created the ,International Entrepreneur program,. Under the program, the USCIS can grant “parole” to foreign entrepreneurs who must also prove they are bringing some significant public benefit to the U.S. The entrepreneurs can work only for their startups and for two and a half years, with the possibility of one extension. Their spouses and children are also eligible for parole. While spouses may apply for a work authorization, the children are not eligible to work. Such a parole can also be granted for up to three entrepreneurs per start-up entity.,U.S. immigration attorney Elizabeth Goss says the International Entrepreneur program is helpful to ,... [+], foreign students graduating from U.S. colleges who want to stay and start up companies.,The program was created in the Obama years, then all but cancelled under Trump, only to be reinstated by Biden. Elizabeth Goss, a Boston immigration attorney who works in this field and recently helped an entrepreneur enter the U.S. under the program, points out, “It is especially useful for foreign students who have graduated from U.S. colleges who are entrepreneurs and want to stay to establish their business here.” ,To succeed under this rule entrepreneurs must demonstrate that they possess an ownership interest in a start-up entity (at least 10%) created in the U.S. within the last five years that has substantial potential for rapid growth and job creation evidenced by either: ,(a) ,significant capital, investment (at least $250,000) from U.S. investors with established track records, ,(b) significant ,awards or grants, (at least $100,000) from federal, state or local government agencies; or ,(c) show ,other “reliable and compelling evidence,” to merit approval, such as admission into a highly competitive startup accelerator.,A spouse of an entrepreneur applying for parole under this rule must also demonstrate that he or she is independently eligible for parole based on significant public benefit or urgent humanitarian reasons and merits a favorable exercise of discretion.,In assessing the effectiveness of such a program, it is sometimes helpful to compare it with a similar program operating elsewhere. The Canadian ,start-up visa program, is a similar successful immigration initiative that can serve this purpose. Let’s consider how that program is run to determine the value of the American program and to see if there are ways it might be improved.,Contrasting Two Programs ,The Canadian start-up program is designed to spur the economy and encourage growth like the American ,... [+], International Entrepreneur program.,Under the Canadian program, there are three ways the intending immigrant entrepreneur can qualify:,1) Be accepted into a ,business incubator, program that will work with the entrepreneur to prepare a business plan for the project. The incubator seems to be the most popular option, and usually involves a payment to the incubator by the entrepreneur of say about $ 70,000 U.S. ($ 100,000 Canadian) to get the incubator involved. It also involves spending some 4 to 6 months in Canada and working with the incubator group to perfect the plan, or,2) Get the support of a government designated ,angel investor, group to invest under $ 60,000 U.S. ($ 75,000 Canadian) in a project, or,3) Get the support of a government designated ,venture capital fund, group to invest just over $ 150,000 U.S. ($ 200,000 Canadian) in a project.,In each case, the entrepreneur must end up owning at least 10 percent of the voting shares in the Canadian company incorporated to do the project, and must become actively involved in its management. No other person can hold 50 percent or more of the voting shares in the enterprise.,If the entrepreneur meets these requirements, he or she will get a ,letter of support or a commitment certificate, from the sponsoring group that will open the Canadian doors to your immigration. Processing of such a permanent resident immigration application will take about 18 months. However, once the entrepreneur has gained the written support for the start-up, they can immediately apply for a short-term work permit to work on the project. A spouse can also get an open work permit, children can go to school at no cost and all the family can get free health care after about three months from their entry into Canada.,The biggest difference between the two start-up programs is that the Canadian program leads to permanent residence, while the U.S. International Entrepreneur parole offers applicants only a temporary status of two and a half years with one renewal, or in other words a maximum 5 years. There is no clear path to permanent residence with the U.S. program. Canada also allows the spouse and children to work, while the U.S. allows only the spouse to obtain work authorization, but not the children. The U.S. program includes a needlessly onerous requirement that the spouse also make a showing of public benefit or humanitarian need to be granted parole. Although applicants for the Canadian visa usually undergo more scrutiny and a much lengthier application process, U.S. applicants can petition for their parole and receive it at right at the U.S. port of entry. However, until America offers a more definite way to convert parole to permanent residence, relative ease of entry is of little value.,When compared to other U.S. immigration programs available to entrepreneurs, such as the E-2, L-1, EB-5 or even O-1 visas, the International Entrepreneurship program falls short in what it offers prospective applicants. Unfortunately, it has not been thought out well, is too demanding in terms of eligibility criteria for the benefits offered and is unlikely to do well in attracting foreign entrepreneurs for that reason.