As the Supreme Court weighs dismantling ,Roe v. Wade, ,a new Gallup ,poll, finds the number of Americans who think abortion is “morally acceptable” is at a record high.,Local pro-choice activist Lisa King holds a sign in front of the U.S. Supreme Court as a pro-life ,... [+], activist holds a rose nearby during the annual "March for Life" event January 22, 2009 in Washington, DC. The event was to mark the anniversary of the 1973 Roe v Wade Supreme Court abortion ruling. (Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images),Nearly half of Americans believe abortion to be acceptable—47%—the highest Gallup has measured in two decades of asking the question. ,Americans are still divided on the issue of abortion, as 46% believe abortion to be “morally wrong.”,The latest acceptance figures are up slightly on 2015, when 45% of Americans said it was morally acceptable. ,The poll—which was conducted May 3-18 in a survey of 1,016 adults—found increased acceptance of abortion among Democrats and independents: 64% of Democrats think abortion is acceptable, while 51% of independents and just 26% of Republicans say the same. ,The country is less divided on the issue of whether to overturn ,Roe v. Wade,, the landmark Supreme Court decision on abortion being a constitutional right: 58% of Americans are against overturning the decision, while just 32% are for it. ,Since 1989—when Gallup began asking the question—Americans’ support for keeping ,Roe v. Wade ,in place has fluctuated between 52% and 66%.  ,The poll comes weeks after the Supreme Court ,announced, it will hear a case involving Mississippi’s ban on abortions that take place after 15 weeks. Anti-abortion activists are hopeful the case will result in the new conservative bloc of the court, 6-3, striking down the standards laid out in ,Roe v. Wade,. The case, ,Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization,, deals specifically with the issue of whether “all pre-viability prohibitions on elective abortions are unconstitutional.”,In response to the Supreme Court case, congressional Democrats this week ,reintroduced, a bill that would safeguard abortion rights under federal law. ,Congressional Democrats Reintroduce Bill To Protect Abortion Access Amid Supreme Court Threat, (Forbes),Supreme Court To Consider Mississippi’s Abortion Ban In Move That Could Challenge Roe V. Wade, (Forbes)