Mukesh Ambani, Steve Ballmer,I,t has been an ascendant 12 months for India’s richest person, Mukesh Ambani. His cricket team, the Mumbai Indians, were Indian Premier League champions for the second year in a row. And off the field, shares of his multinational conglomerate, Reliance Industries, rose more than 85% over the last 12 months—helping more than double Ambani’s net worth to $84.5 billion.,That’s enough to make Ambani the world’s richest sports team owner. He surpasses last year’s No. 1, former Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer, for the top spot.,Ballmer, who owns the Los Angeles Clippers basketball team, has also seen his fortune grow, although not enough to keep up with Ambani. His net worth is now $68.7 billion, according to ,Forbes,, up from $52.7 billion a year ago. ,The bar for entry onto the list of the richest sports team owners has gotten dramatically higher since early 2020, amid what has been a record year for billionaire wealth. The top 20 billionaire controlling owners of teams in major sports leagues now have a combined net worth of $427 billion, up from ,$266 billion last year,, according to ,Forbes,. That’s a 60% increase over the past 12 months—even though many sports arenas and stadiums have remained mostly empty amid the pandemic.,Of course, Covid-19 hasn’t curbed fans’ appetite or stopped major deals from happening. Hedge fund billionaire Steve Cohen, for example, finally won approval from Major League Baseball for his roughly $2.4 billion purchase of the New York Mets in October 2020. That deal has earned Cohen a spot on the list of the world’s richest sports team owners for the first time.,Another notable newcomer: billionaire Home Depot cofounder Arthur Blank. After stepping down as co-chairman of the retail giant in 2001, he purchased the Atlanta Falcons football team the following year for $545 million (now ,worth, nearly $1.9 billion net of debt, according to ,Forbes,’ estimates). Blank also brought professional soccer to the city with his Major League Soccer team Atlanta United FC, which played its inaugural season in 2017. ,The biggest gainer on the list this year—in both dollar and percentage terms—is, by far, Dan Gilbert, the billionaire mortgage tycoon and owner of the NBA’s Cleveland Cavaliers. He’s worth an estimated $51.9 billion, a nearly 700% increase from last year thanks to the company he cofounded in 1985, Quicken Loans. Now the largest mortgage lender in the United States, Quicken went public as Rocket Companies at a massive $36 billion valuation in August 2020, ,catapulting, Gilbert up the ranks of the world’s richest billionaires.,Dan Gilbert.,Dietrich Mateschitz.,Steve Cohen.,David Tepper.,Stanley Kroenke.,Arthur Blank.,Italian billionaire Rocco Commisso, owner of soccer team ACF Fiorentina, was added to the list at #16. That bumped Arthur Blank, owner of the Atlanta Falcons, to #21 on the list.