Loki,Loki episode 1 has gone up on ,Disney Plus this morning,, a return to a weekly Marvel and/or Star Wars series we can all overanalyze to death. And I can’t wait.,We’re opening with a 50+ minute episode, so we are not doing WandaVision-style shorter entries, it seems. But even though this was half the length of a movie, Loki needs to spend a ,whole, lot of time explaining what exactly it is, and what it will be doing over the course of this first season, and possibly the second season, which has already been greenlit.,Spoilers follow.,If you watched the trailer, you get the gist of it. During the events of Avengers Endgame, Loki manages to escape his “correct” timeline using the Tesseract. But he doesn’t know that, and is confused when he’s abducted by the Time Variance Authority (the TVA) and brought to a strange, Twin Peaks-looking place where his magic doesn’t work.,Loki is informed that as a Variant, he’s screwed up the “Sacred Timeline” which must now be rectified. Loki, being the arrogant god he is, believes none of this, but slowly comes to terms with it over the course of the episode, and once he sees a box full of Infinity Stones that the office uses as paperweights, he starts to wonder if the TVA somehow ,is, the most powerful force in the universe.,Loki,It’s…a whole lot of exposition. Don’t get me wrong, I like Loki, we all like Loki, and that’s the reason it still works. It’s also helped along by Owen Wilson as Mobius who makes a surprisingly perfect foil to Loki, who is forced to come to terms with his ambitions, his motivations and his ultimate “correct” timeline fate.,But the idea is that maybe there’s a way ,this, version of Loki can exist and ,not, have his neck eventually snapped by Thanos. There’s a dangerous Variant lurking around that Mobius eventually reveals is…Loki himself, which obviously raises an entire host of questions.,Some of the Qs that immediately come to mind after viewing this episode:,Loki,Finally, I know that everyone was speculating that WandaVision would be the catalyst to create the “Multiverse of Madness” that will be the main purpose of Doctor Strange 2 and open the door to multiple Spider-Men in Far From Home. That didn’t happen, but here? I mean, come on, this ,has, to be the genesis for that storyline. In the little TVA explainer video, they talk about how there used to be a multiverse with warring timelines that had to be merged into the sacred one. And if a Variant is allowed to rampage around unchecked, their decisions and impact could spawn another multiverse, which is why the TVA needs to stop them. Since was ,are, getting a multiverse, it’s clear the TVA doesn’t succeed. So is that the main point of Loki season 1? Does evil Loki set all the events of the coming multiverse, multi-movie plotline in motion? It certainly seems possible, and this doesn’t feel like WandaVision speculation this time.,Anyway, I liked the first episode, exposition heavy or not. It’s clearly going to be an extremely weird series and unlike anything else in the MCU, which I think is just fine after a more traditional run of Falcon and the Winter Soldier. ,More to come next Wednesday, see you then.,Follow me ,on Twitter,, ,YouTube,, ,Facebook, and ,Instagram,.,Subscribe to my free weekly content round-up newsletter, ,God Rolls,.,Pick up my sci-fi novels the ,Herokiller series,, and ,The Earthborn Trilogy,, which is also on ,audiobook,.